=pod

=head1 NAME

crypt_client_black - cryptd black client.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 12

=item B<crypt_client_black> B<-S> F<sock> B<-l>

=item B<crypt_client_black> B<-S> F<sock> B<-t> I<title> B<-o> F<out> B<-r>

=item B<crypt_client_black> B<-S> F<sock> B<-t> I<title> B<-i> F<in> B<-s>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<crypt_client_black> is a dedicated client for communicating with the B<cryptd>
daemon on its "black" socket. It allows import and export of ACID CSA archives to and
from the daemon on that interface, as well as listing the contents of the output archive
list of the daemon.

It should be noted that cryptd archives are tagged by the creator's I<uid>, and only visible
to the same I<uid>. Therefore, the B<crypt_client_black> and B<crypt_client_red> executables
need to be launched under the same I<uid> to be able to transfer files between one another 
through B<cryptd>.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<crypt_client_black> supports the following options :

=over 12

=item B<-S> F<sock> [Mandatory]

Connect to the F<sock> (path) socket to communicate with B<cryptd>.

=item B<-l> 

List the available archives in the output list of B<cryptd>. This returns a string containing
all identifier tags (one per line) for archives that where created with the same I<uid> as 
the caller.

=item B<-s>

Import (send) an archive into B<cryptd>. This requires the B<-i> and B<-t> arguments to be
passed as well.

=item B<-r>

Export (receive) an archive from B<cryptd>. This requires the B<-o> and B<-t> arguments to be
passed as well.

=item B<-t> I<title>

Use I<title> as the free-form identifier of the archive to import or export.

=item B<-i> F<archive> [Import only]

Use F<archive> (path) as the archive to import.

=item B<-o> F<archive> [Export only]

Export the archive to path F<archive>, which must not exist yet.

=item B<-v>

Be more verbose in logging. This option can be passed several times for additional 
effect, although at this point B<-vv> is as far as it goes in terms of verbosity.

=item B<-h>

Display a short help summary, and exit immediately.

=back 

=head1 AUTHOR 

Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<cryptd(8)|cryptd>, L<crypt_client_red(8)|crypt_client_red>
 
=cut
