=pod

=head1 NAME

crypt_client_red - cryptd red client.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 12

=item B<crypt_client_red> B<-S> F<sock> B<-l>

=item B<crypt_client_red> B<-S> F<sock> B<-t> I<title> B<-K> F<priv> [B<-k> F<pub>]+ [B<-i> F<file>]+ [B<-I> F<path>]+ B<-s> 

=item B<crypt_client_red> B<-S> F<sock> B<-t> I<title> B<-K> F<priv> B<-o> F<dir> B<-r>|B<-R>

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<crypt_client_red> is a dedicated client for communicating with the B<cryptd>
daemon on its "red" socket. It allows encryption of files into ACID CSA archives, and 
decryption of such archives into files, to and from the daemon on that interface, 
as well as listing the contents of the input archive list of the daemon.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<crypt_client_red> supports the following options :

=over 12

=item B<-S> F<sock> [Mandatory]

Connect to the F<sock> (path) socket to communicate with B<cryptd>.

=item B<-l> 

List the available archives in the output list of B<cryptd>. This returns a string containing
all identifier tags (one per line) for archives that where created with the same I<uid> as 
the caller.

=item B<-s>

Encrypt (send) an archive into B<cryptd>'s output list. 
This requires the B<-K>, B<-k>, B<-t> and B<-i> arguments to be passed as well.

=item B<-r>

Decrypt (receive) an archive from B<cryptd>'s input list. 
This requires the B<-K>, B<-t> and B<-o> arguments to be passed as well.

=item B<-R>
Decrypt (receive) an archive from B<cryptd>'s input list, and save the 
sender's public key along with the decrypted cleartext.
This requires the B<-K>, B<-t> and B<-o> arguments to be passed as well.

=item B<-t> I<title>

Use I<title> as the free-form identifier of the archive to encrypt or decrypt.

=item B<-K> F<key>

Use F<key> (file path) as the private key for encryption or decryption. F<key> must be
a KLN Doc v1 or v2 ACID private key (I<acidpvr>). Note that the password for this key will be
prompted for by B<cryptd> itself, through an external command.

=item B<-i> F<file> [Encryption only]

Add F<file> (file path), at the root of the archive being encrypted. 
This can be passed several times to create a multi-file archive. 
The file is included at the root of the archive, other path components 
are skipped.

=item B<-I> F<path> [Encryption only]

Add F<path> (file path), with path, to the archive being encrypted. 
This can be passed several times to create a multi-file archive. 
All path components from F<path> are included in the
archive, i.e. F<foo/bar> will appear as F<foo/bar> when decrypting 
the archive, rather than simply F<bar>.
Note however that absolute paths will be systematically "relativized"
by the B<cryptd> daemon, i.e. F</foo/bar> will be silently turned 
into F<foo/bar> (and don't even bother trying F<//foo/bar>).

=item B<-k> F<key> [Encryption only]

Add public key F<key> to the list of recipients for the archive being encrypted. F<key> must be
a KLN Doc v1 or v2 ACID public key (I<acidppr>). This option can be passed several times to 
specify multiple recipients for the archive.

=item B<-o> F<dir> [Decryption only]

Save the files extracted from the decrypted archive into directory F<dir>. F<dir> must exist and
be a directory (it won't be created automatically). Subdirectories will be created automatically
as needed if files in the archive specify a path including subdirectories. 
Note that B<crypt_client_red> will refuse to modify any existing file, so F<dir> 
should be basically empty.

=item B<-v>

Be more verbose in logging. This option can be passed several times for additional 
effect, although at this point B<-vv> is as far as it goes in terms of verbosity.

=item B<-h>

Display a short help summary, and exit immediately.

=back 

=head1 AUTHOR 

Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<cryptd(8)|cryptd>, L<crypt_client_black(8)|crypt_client_black>
 
=cut
